PETER M. AARESTAD, M.S.
1532 N Campbell Ave. #2
Chicago, IL 60622
email: aarestad@gmail.com


TECHNICAL SKILLS

* Java Technologies: Spring MVC, Spring Data, Hibernate, GWT, Core Java, Java Servlets, Sockets, Swing
* Front-end Technologies: AngularJS
* Languages: Java, JavaScript, Objective-C, C (standard C library, Berkeley sockets), C++, Python, Perl, bash shell 
* Web Technologies: HTML, JSP
* Database Technologies: MySQL, PostgreSQL, Microsoft SQL Server, general SQL programming
* Operating Systems: Mac OS X, Unix (various versions including CentOS, Ubuntu, and Solaris), iOS, Android
* IDE: IntelliJ IDEA, Eclipse


EDUCATION/AWARDS

* Northwestern University, Evanston, IL - Cabell Fellowship
* Loyola University, Chicago, IL - Master of Science in Computer Science
* Saint Olaf College, Northfield, MN - Bachelor of Arts magna cum laude in Mathematics and Chemistry

PUBLICATIONS

Aarestad, P.M.; Ching, Avery; Thiruvathukal, G.K.; Choudhary, A.N.,
"Scalable Approaches for Supporting MPI-IO Atomicity," Sixth IEEE International Symposium
on Cluster Computing and the Grid, 2006, pp.35-42, 16-19 May 2006

WORK EXPERIENCE

Senior Engineer
Emmi Solutions, Chicago, IL
11/2015 - present

Working on completion of the first release of the rewrite of Emmi Manager, Emmi's mission-critical program management software used both by internal Emmi employees and external clients to schedule Emmi programs for patients. Spring MVC/Data based on the back-end, AngularJS front-end, Microsoft SQL Server database.

Software Engineer
GrubHub Inc., Chicago, IL
2/2011 - 11/2015


Co-led a rewrite of GrubCentral, GrubHub's restaurant-facing tool allowing confirmation of orders and self-service for updating restaurant data, including menus. Co-led development of an internal tool used to track and managed delivery drivers in real time. Managing and supporting Java-based web development of the main consumer web site, business-facing sites, and an internal facing sites. Co-developed a loyalty program that rewarded frequent diners with random prizes and fun YouTube videos. Participated in substantial work on an Android-based restaurant tool allowing the restaurants to manage their orders and online presence directly. Participated in substantial work on our iPhone and Android mobile apps. Main technologies include Java (mainly Stripes and Spring MVC with a smattering of Hibernate) on the back end, JSP/JavaScript on the front end, as well as Objective C for iPhone.


Senior Java Developer
InnerWorkings, Chicago, IL
2/2008 - 2/2011


Developed a Swing/Hibernate/Spring-based application for use by internal business users to forecast the cost of future print jobs based on the cost of previous jobs. Worked on most aspects of the application, developing a great deal of technical knowledge in both Swing and Hibernate, and to a lesser extent Spring. Maintained and improved internal Swing application with a Spring/Hibernate backend that maintained workflow for print production managers. Maintained and improved external-facing GWT-based application that allowed external suppliers to bid on print jobs directly. Developed an internally-used item search engine with a JavaScript/JQuery interface that uses a domain-specific language developed in JavaCC.


Java Test Engineer II
Orbitz Worldwide, Chicago, IL
6/2006 - 1/2008


Developed a Jython-based testing framework used to develop black-box smoke tests and medium-capacity load tests against the Java/Spring/Jini-based web framework built by the company to support its multiple web sites worldwide, including Orbitz.com, Cheaptickets.com, and eBookers.com. The framework is now being used in the organization to write proactive smoke tests for regression testing as the framework is rapidly developed. Also coordinated load tests run with the framework, created a reporting system using Django to display results, and trained other developers in the framework's use.


Java Developer
SBC, Hoffman Estates, IL
8/2004 - 10/2004


Maintained and improved in-house web-based database management tool used in conjunction with Java-based maintenance activity utility used by field engineers.


Developer
Citigroup, Hoffman Estates, IL
11/2003 - 8/2004


Participated in ad hoc development projects related to Sears' sale of credit business, usually involving Perl scripting. Currently enhancing and supporting applications previously owned by Sears: J2EE-based credit application system, customer service software, VRU system, and others on an ad hoc basis.


Application Development Specialist
Sears, Roebuck and Co., Hoffman Estates, IL
10/2000 - 11/2003


Supported mission-critical, real-time, Unix-based credit acquisition system by writing shell and Perl scripts and performing system maintenance as needed. Aided development of in-house credit account scoring engine written in C by writing several functions for the system and developing a C-based import program. Enhanced J2EE Web-based credit card application system by improving JSP front-end and coding a portion of the back-end Java servlet code, improving on previously-written code; continuing to support system through present. Developed shell and Perl script-based rewrite of logistics scheduling system. Developed J2EE internal inventory reporting system as part of company-wide Performance Improvement Project. Improved productivity of in-house mainframe testers by writing and enhancing screen-scraping scripts using the WinRunner software package; also developed Microsoft Excel/VBA-based spreadsheet to simplify test development and execution. Moved to Citigroup in November 2003 as consequence of credit business sale by Sears to Citigroup.
